In this lesson, we will slightly modify the class of our basic weapon.
Let's fire on a timer, that is, if the mouse button is held down, then the shooting will continue automatically.
First, let's split our fire function into two functions: the first will be called StartFire, and the second will be called StopFire,
that is, when the button is held down, we start the timer, and when we release the button,
the shooting stops. Duplicate bind and StopFire will be called on Release.
Next, go to the weapon component.
We divide the fire function into StartFire and StopFire. Go to the .cpp file of the weapon component.
We rename Fire to StartFire and also in the class of the base weapon we will have to create start and stop functions. Duplicate.
We call the function StopFire and change the function of CurrentWeapon.
Let's go to the BaseWeapon class.
Change the name Fire to StartFire. We create StopFire.
We do the same in the .cpp file.
We've done a little refactoring and are now ready to write the timer code. When the user clicks
on the mouse, we have to take the first shot with you. Actually, the MakeShot function is responsible for this.
Therefore, we leave the call to this function. Next, we set the timer, for this we get a
link to it using the GetWorldTimerManager function and call the SetTimer function.
We register a handle for a timer that does not exist yet - ShotTimerHandle.
Further, a pointer to an object - this, then a link to a function - directly MakeShot.
Next, we specify a variable that will be responsible for the frequency of the timer - TimeBetweenShots.
And as the last parameter, we specify true, that is, the call of the function by timer will be repeated for us.
Next, go to StopFire, MakeShot can be removed, that is, when the user releases the
mouse button, we must stop our timer with you. To do this, call the ClearTimer function.
We pass the Handle of the timer into it.
Let's go to the header file and create the variables we need.
We create a private section.
Create a class member descriptor for the timer.
And we create a property for the timing of the timer. Copy the property macro.
Copy the name of the TimeBetweenShots variable and set some small value, for example 0.1 seconds.
In general, our logic is ready, but we can slightly diversify our mechanics so that the shots
are always at no point, and so that each time there is a slight deviation from the direction of the shot.
Let's implement it. So, when we have a shot, we get the start and end points
using the GetTraceData function. Let's go into it with you and move on.
Let's change the ShootDirection, that is, we somehow need to deflect
the direction vector with you so that it is barely noticeable. We can mentally build a cone with the top of
which is at the point of the shot, and the height corresponds to the ShootDirection.
And all we need to do is take some vector from the given cone.
The FMath class has a special function that will do all the work for us. It's called VRandCone.
The function takes several arguments: this is the direction of the cone and the angle of the opening of the cone (aka the angle at the vertex).
We have the vector of the direction of the cone. It corresponds to ViewRotation.Vector The
second variable, which is responsible for the angle of the cone, we need to create. And the parameter is not responsible for the full angle,
but for the half of the angle. Therefore, we call it HalfRad. Let's make the Property for this angle in degrees,
so the HalfRad variable will be local and in fact it will convert our property of the angle
in degrees to radians. To do this, we will use the FMath function called DegreesToRadians.
Let's call the property, which will store half the angle of the cone, BulletSpread.
We create it in the .h file.
Again we set some adequate arbitrary value.
Let it be 1.5 - that is, the total angle of the cone from us is 3 degrees.
Now we have everything ready for sure. Shooting takes place on a timer and each subsequent shot will be slightly randomized
in a 3-degree cone.
This mechanic can be developed as follows: when the character becomes very ill, that is, for example, he has a low
level of health, then the angle of this cone gradually begins to increase.
That is, it becomes more difficult to hit when shooting. Let's see what we've got.
Click play.
We start shooting.
We see that the shooting now occurs on a timer, if we do not release the mouse button and the distribution
occurs in a small cone. It looks more natural than if we were shooting
at one point all the time. We also have a small problem that we will fix a little later:
if the character was killed, and the mouse button was held down, then the timer will continue to work for us
and this is not correct. Shot lines are not found, because we have to check for a zero owner,
but if you log any message in the MakeShot function, you can make sure that it continues to be called.